# What is path traversal?

Path traversal is also known as directory traversal. These vulnerabilities enable an attacker to read arbitrary files on the server that is running an application. This might include:

- Application code and data.
- Credentials for back-end systems.
- Sensitive operating system files.

# Common obstacles to exploiting path traversal vulnerabilities

Many applications that place user input into file paths implement defenses against path traversal attacks. These can often be bypassed.

If an application strips or blocks directory traversal sequences from the user-supplied filename, it might be possible to bypass the defense using a variety of techniques.

You might be able to use an absolute path from the filesystem root, such as `filename=/etc/passwd`, to directly reference a file without using any traversal sequences.

# How to prevent a path traversal attack

The most effective way to prevent path traversal vulnerabilities is to avoid passing user-supplied input to filesystem APIs altogether. Many application functions that do this can be rewritten to deliver the same behavior in a safer way.

If you can't avoid passing user-supplied input to filesystem APIs, we recommend using two layers of defense to prevent attacks:

- Validate the user input before processing it. Ideally, compare the user input with a whitelist of permitted values. If that isn't possible, verify that the input contains only permitted content, such as alphanumeric characters only.
- After validating the supplied input, append the input to the base directory and use a platform filesystem API to **canonicalize**（规范化） the path. Verify that the canonicalized path starts with the expected base directory.

Below is an example of some simple Java code to validate the canonical path of a file based on user input:

```java
File file = new File(BASE_DIRECTORY, userInput);
if (file.getCanonicalPath().startsWith(BASE_DIRECTORY)) {
    // process file
}
```

#### Read more

- [Find directory traversal vulnerabilities using Burp Suite's web vulnerability scanner](https://portswigger.net/burp/vulnerability-scanner)
