# What is SQL injection (SQLi) ?
SQL injection (SQLi) is a web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to interfere with the queries that an application makes to its database. This can allow an attacker to view data that they are not normally able to retrieve. This might include data that belongs to other users, or any other data that the application can access. In many cases, an attacker can modify or delete this data, causing persistent changes to the application's content or behavior.

In some situations, an attacker can escalate a SQL injection attack to compromise the underlying server or other back-end infrastructure. It can also enable them to perform denial-of-service attacks.

# What is the impact of a successful SQL injection attack?
A successful SQL injection attack can result in unauthorized access to sensitive data, such as:

- Passwords.

- Credit card details.

- Personal user information.

SQL injection attacks have been used in many high-profile data breaches over the years. These have caused reputational damage and regulatory fines. In some cases, an attacker can obtain a persistent backdoor into an organization's systems, leading to a long-term compromise that can go unnoticed for an extended period.

## Blind SQL injection vulnerabilities

Many instances of SQL injection are blind vulnerabilities. This means that the application does not return the results of the SQL query or the details of any database errors within its responses. Blind vulnerabilities can still be exploited to access unauthorized data, but the techniques involved are generally more complicated and difficult to perform.

The following techniques can be used to exploit blind SQL injection vulnerabilities, depending on the nature of the vulnerability and the database involved:

- You can change the logic of the query to trigger a detectable difference in the application's response depending on the truth of a single condition. This might involve injecting a new condition into some Boolean logic, or conditionally triggering an error such as a divide-by-zero.
- You can conditionally trigger a time delay in the processing of the query. This enables you to infer the truth of the condition based on the time that the application takes to respond.
- You can trigger an out-of-band network interaction, using OAST techniques. This technique is extremely powerful and works in situations where the other techniques do not. Often, you can directly exfiltrate data via the out-of-band channel. For example, you can place the data into a DNS lookup for a domain that you control.

**Read more**

- [Blind SQL injection](https://portswigger.net/web-security/sql-injection/blind)
