# What is authentication?

Authentication is the process of verifying the identity of a given user or client. In other words, it involves making sure that they really are who they claim to be. At least in part, websites are exposed to anyone who is connected to the internet by design. Therefore, robust authentication mechanisms are an **integral** aspect of effective web security.

There are three authentication factors into which different types of authentication can be categorized:

- Something you **know**, such as a password or the answer to a security question. These are sometimes referred to as "**knowledge factors**".
- Something you **have**, that is, a physical object like a mobile phone or security token. These are sometimes referred to as "**possession** factors".
- Something you **are** or do, for example, your biometrics or patterns of behavior. These are sometimes referred to as "**inherence** factors".

Authentication mechanisms rely on **a range of** technologies to verify one or more of these factors.

# What is the difference between authentication and authorization?

Authentication is the process of verifying that a user really **is who they claim to be**, whereas authorization involves verifying whether a user **is allowed to do something**.

In the context of a website or web application, authentication determines whether someone attempting to access the site with the username `Carlos123` really is the same person who created the account.

Once `Carlos123` is authenticated, his permissions determine whether or not he is authorized, for example, to access personal information about other users or perform actions such as deleting another user's account.

# What is the impact of vulnerable authentication?

The impact of authentication vulnerabilities can be very severe. Once an attacker has either bypassed authentication or has brute-forced their way into another user's account, they have access to all the data and functionality that the compromised account has. If they are able to compromise a high-privileged account, such as a system administrator, they could take full control over the entire application and potentially gain access to internal infrastructure.

Even compromising a low-privileged account might still grant an attacker access to data that they otherwise shouldn't have, such as commercially sensitive business information. Even if the account does not have access to any sensitive data, it might still allow the attacker to access additional pages, which provide a further attack surface. Often, certain high-severity attacks will not be possible from publicly accessible pages, but they may be possible from an internal page.

# Vulnerabilities in authentication mechanisms

A website's authentication system usually consists of several distinct mechanisms where vulnerabilities may occur. Some vulnerabilities are broadly applicable across all of these contexts, whereas others are more specific to the functionality provided.

We will look more closely at some of the most common vulnerabilities in the following areas:

- [Vulnerabilities in password-based login](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/password-based) LABS
- [Vulnerabilities in multi-factor authentication](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/multi-factor) LABS
- [Vulnerabilities in other authentication mechanisms](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/other-mechanisms) LABS

Note that several of the labs require you to enumerate usernames and brute-force passwords. To help you with this process, we've provided a shortlist of candidate [usernames](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/auth-lab-usernames) and [passwords](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/auth-lab-passwords) that you should use to solve the labs.

# Vulnerabilities in third-party authentication mechanisms

If you love to hack authentication mechanisms, after completing our main authentication labs, more advanced users may want to try and tackle our OAuth authentication labs.

#### Read more

[OAuth authentication](https://portswigger.net/web-security/oauth)

# Preventing attacks on your own authentication mechanisms

We have demonstrated several ways in which websites can be vulnerable due to how they implement authentication. To reduce the risk of such attacks on your own websites, there are several general principles that you should always try to follow.

#### Read more

[How to secure your authentication mechanisms](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/securing)
